
<style>
  .phb#p1{ text-align:center; }
  .phb#p1:after{ display:none; }
</style>

<div style='margin-top:450px;'></div>

# Outlands

<div style='margin-top:25px'></div>
<div class='wide'>
##### West marches with the serial numbers filed off
</div>

\page
## Adventure!
Go westward brave adventurer, the Outlands await!
 
The frontier is upon us. Several years ago a selfish mage caused a planar overlay which wiped out the whole of the western ocean and covered it over with a strange new land. At first storms and magical interference kept anyone from exploring this new land, but now the Alliance has found a way through the storms and has begun to explore. You... are not alliance. A private group has 'acquired' their own way through and have hired you to help them explore. There's enough to go around, right? Riches and Glory await you past the Tempest Veil. Onwards to Outlands.
 
- Outlands is a westmarches style game.
- It will be played online through the VTT roll20.
- It will be using the Pathfinder second edition system.
 
## Roll20 Link
 
https://app.roll20.net/join/12030621/dSI13Q
 
 
## Character Building, Hooks, and advancement
 
Only the core pathfinder book is allowed. No other supplements or resources may be used.
Players may have more than one character, though they may only play one at a time.
 
Characters brought to the Outlands are mercenary explorers in the employ of the Consortium, a loose affiliation of nobles and merchants. Each character has signed a contract with the Consortium(text below) and has a reason to have done so. This campaign will be player driven and as such, characters will need a desire to explore the outlands(or to just hangout with the ones who do). Explorers can expect to discover uncharted locals and to have custom magic items crafted for them by the best smith in the lands; further, if they survive they will receive a king's bounty of gold and prestige.
 
### What is known about the Outlands?
 
Very little. However, early reports show that at least three intelligent species may now or in the recent past have called outlands home. Tablets found at a site near Hope's Gambit are in the process of being translated, but nothing concrete has been found. Magical analysis of the area shows signs of a recent cataclysm, likely the planar overlay that brought the outlands to the world, however nothing else has yet been discovered through the 'noise' generated by the event. Extreme caution is being exercised by all consortium personnel.
 
### The Contract
 
[The below is a simplified contract. For full text please go to your nearest Consortium office]
You agree to join the Consortium as explorers and to:
 
- Travel to the newly arrived land of "Outlands" for a tour to be no shorter than 6(six) months.
- Assist the Consortium in its efforts to explore and chart this new land.
- Recover any lost objects of archaeological, magical, or monetary value.
 
In return, the Consortium will guarantee you:
 
- Free room, board, and amenities at the Consortium's outposts in the outlands.
   - Amenities may include: The services of an apothecary, entertainment, artisans and crafters including the services of the world renowned smith Andre of Halfhill.
- Monthly pay of no less than 25 pieces of gold.
- At the end of your tour a lump payment of no less than 200 pieces of gold per month spent in the outlands.
- Death benefits of 350 pieces of gold to a dependant or estate of your choosing.
 
In addition:
 
- A monthly bonus will be granted for each item of value recovered.
- A large bonus will be granted at the end of your tour based on all items of value recovered.
- More amenities and services as the outpost grows.
 
Monthly wages will be paid out on the 24th day of each month, unless that day is a Saturday, in which case wages will be paid on the 23rd of the month.
End of tour wages and death benefits will be paid out no more than 2(two) months after your tour ends.
 
In the event that you are no longer able or fit to continue your tour of Outlands (based on the recommendations of the expedition's commander) you will be paid a prorated amount for that month and granted your full end of tour benefits within 2(two) months of your departure.
 
## Outlands Features
 
### Hope's Gambit
 
A living and customizable home. Hope's Gambit is the consortium's outpost in the outlands. It will grow and change with the explorers.
 
> The outpost will gain prosperity as valuable treasure is brought to it.
>
> Prosperity can be spent to upgrade the outpost and its amenities
>
> The outpost is inspired by MCDM's Strongholds and Followers
 
### Monster Crafting
 
Defeated foes can be harvested for resources which can then be used to build both familiar and new magic items. This will leverage the full power of pathfinder crafting and allow for meaningful customization.

\page

## What is the Westmarches style of gaming?
 
West Marches is a player driven campaign experience. It has no set day or time and there is no set group. Instead players come together and pitch an expedition and meet time to the GM. The world is left open and free to explore. This is a sandbox game about exploration and discovery.
In this game the outpost of Hope's Gambit will be a 'safe zone' while the rest of the outlands are dangerous and unpredictable.

\page

## The Town of Hope's Gambit

#### Settlement Chart
|Level|Building Points|Perks|Features|
|:---:|:-------------:|:---:|:------:|
|1    |1              |0    |Crafting, Maps|
|2    |2              |0    |Scouting Reports, Black Market|
|3    |3              |1    |-|
|4    |4              |1    |Mage Circle (Waystone)|
|5    |5              |2    |-|
|6    |6              |2    |Mage Circle (Return)|
|7    |7              |3    |-|
|8    |8              |3    |Outpost 1|
|9    |9              |4    |-|
|10   |10             |4    |Mage Circle (Portal)|
|11   |11             |5    |-|
|12   |12             |5    | Outpost 2|
|13   |13             |6    |-|
|14   |14             |6    | Storm Tunnel|
|15   |15             |7    | Permanent Settlement|

### Building Points

At each level, including the first the outpost generates enough prosperity to upgrade one building. Note that a building cannot reach its 4th and final tier until outpost level 9. A list of buildings and their upgrades is below.

### Perks

Starting at 3rd level and every other level there after the outpost provides a perk to all explorers that have a base there. A list of perks is below.

### Crafting

The legendary smith Andre has brought his equally legendary titan fist forge to Hope's Gambit. He can make items in a fraction of the normal time and is well suited to using the materials of this strange land. He can craft any item of any level so long as he has been supplied with the proper materials. Monster materials and their rules can be seen below.

### Maps

One of the first building set up in Hope's Gambit was a cartographer which also serves as a defacto command tent. Any returning expeditions can give over any maps/charts/etc and they will be added to the master map.

### Scouting Reports

The consortium sometimes sends out scouting parties that can, if they return, give a basic idea as to what to expect.

<div style='margin-top:140px'></div>


### Black Market

Shady dealers have found their way into Hope's Gambit, they'll buy items at a premium. Any gold gained from the black market won't help the town upgrade, but can be spent on importing materials for crafting.

### Mage Circle

A circle of arcane spellcasters has begun mapping the leylines of the outlands. Starting at 3rd level they provide explorers up to 3 sigils that, when placed in a location of sufficient power, can allow limited teleportation between the sigil and town.

> Teleportation can effect up to 9 creatures or items of medium size or smaller. Each discreat item counts as 1 creature. (Crates can be useful here). Each sigil can be used to teleport once every hour.

At 5th level they can craft powerful runes of returning. Once used, a character cannot benefit from the rune again for 1 week. These runes are given to every explorer that can benefit from them when they leave town.

> It takes 1 hour to activate a rune. Once active the bearer will return to the circle, also any rune within 60ft of the first can be instantly activated. Due to the magics involved only living creatures and they're immediate possessions can be returned this way.

At 9th level circle can support up to 9 sigils and can open portals between them, allowing for greater movement of items. Further, the sigils can be placed anywhere that is not magically desolate.

> A portal can remain open for any length of time, it has no creature or weight limits. However, it has a maximum diameter of 9 feet and only one such portal can be open at a time.

### Outpost

As Hope's Gambit continues to grow to has the ability to create and maintain satalite outposts. These outposts confer all town perks, building perks, and mage circle upgrades.

### Storm Tunnel

A powerful arcane tunnel has been constructed that has generated a long, but safe passage way through the storm wall. This allows for easy access to the town and outside world.

### Permanent Settlement

Hope's Gambit has grown beyond its humble beginnings and is now the first major city in the outlands.
\page
## Perks

Perks are granted to all explorers who have survived at least 1 expedition. Feats and skills must be explicitly chosen when the perk is taken. When a new perk is gained, 1 pervious perk may be exchanged for another. Some perks take more than 1 point. If a character already has the effect of a perk, the perk has no effect.
>Note that perks are chosen once and apply to everyone.

- A bonus skill at trained. If a character is already trained in that skill it advanced to expert. If they are already expert, this perk has no effect.
- A bonus skill feat
- A bonus general feat(2 points)
- 3 enhanced arcane spells added to the town library (Choose a base spell adn work with the GM to enhance it)

## Building Perks

All buildings start at level 1 and can be upgraded as the town expands. Each building has its own unique perks, but each can only be used once per explorer per expedition. All building perks end after completeing an expedition.

### Lodging

At first lodging in the town is little more than a series of long barracks, but proper sleeping quarters is high on the todo list.

As the Lodgings increase in level they get nicer and convey temporary hit points to explorers that set out from the town. This bonus is equal to 10% of the explorer's maximum HP at level 2 and it increases to 25% at level 3 and 50% at level 4.

### Cartographer

Little more than a tent with a long table when the town is founded, thsi building increases in size and sophistication as it increases in level. At each level after the first explorers who set out from Hope's gambit begin with 1 extra hero point and increase their maximu hero points by the same amount. This bonus increases to 2 and level 3 and 3 and level 4.

### Apothecarium

This building begins as nothing more than marks on the ground. As it levels up it becomes a building in its own right that eventually becomes a laboratory. Starting at level 2 the healers and alchemests here can grant 2/3/4 healing potions of a level comparable to the explorers per expedition. They may instead grant twice that number of potions of any lower level. They can also craft potions if given the correct materials(this crafting is similar to Andre's).

In addition starting at level 2 they provide a +10 bonus to longterm healing and can cast Lesser Restoration once a week.
<div style='margin-top:140px'></div>


### Titan Fist Forge

Andre's forge is as storied as he is, though it is lacking in certain areas. While he was able to bring his forge and anvil through the storm wall his workshop is little more than 4 posts and a roof. As it levels up, Andre's workshop becomes worthy of his name.

At level 1 Andre can craft items  of a level no higher than the town's level. At level 2 and 4 Andre is able to craft items that are 3 and 5 levels higher than the town and at level 3 Andre can reduce the materials required to craft an item by 1.

### The Public House of Lost Sinners

This pub of ill repute is seen as a needed evil. It is a den of drinking and cheer that also houses all manor of vices to take the edge off of being in a new land. The pub is also home to the Black Market; which the consortium turns a blind eye to... so long as they still get their cut.

At each level after 1: Explorers gain +1 to morale and fear saves. In addition selling items to the black market generates and extra 5% GP per level and grants town xp equal to 10% of the item's value.

### The Counting House of Kalistrade

This ediface to the greater philosophy of the consortium stands as Hope's Gambit's lone shrine. At each level after the first it grants 5/7/10% bonus experience when turning in valuables to the consortium.

## Monster Crafting

Beasts in the outlands can be harvested for material that Andre can use to craft magic items. Each item has a tier and a number of tags. In order to craft an item you must supply materials of the item's tier or higher and have the correct number of tags.
>E.G. to make a Flametounge Greatsword you'll need at least 9 tags of champion tier or higher. The needed tags are: fire x4, metal x4, forceful x1.

Some items have a level range. Iron for example has a range of levels 1-11.

### Harvesting Materials

It takes at least one skill roll and 10 minutes to harvest materials. The skill used will depend on the materials to be harvested, but for harvesting from creatures survival or medicine would be most common.

Skill roll results:
- Critical Success: gain twice as many materials
- Success: Gain 1 material per size catagory of the target
- Faiure: May attempt to gather materials one more time, but the resulting item is 2 levels lower than it otherwise would be. Failing the second check or if the material level would drop below level 1 the reseult is treated as a critical failure.
- Critical Failure: The source is ruined and nothing can be gathered from it.

\page

### Item Formulas

All craftable items start as a formula. Andre knows how to make most of them (assuming he hasn't gambled away his folio... again), however rare items or those endemic to Outlands will require a formula or a sample item for Andre to examine.

##### Item requirements
| Level | Tier     | Tags |
|:-----:|:--------:|:-----|
| 1-4   | Basic    | 7
| 5-9   | Expert   | 8
| 10-14 | Champion | 9
| 15-19 | Master   | 10
| 20    | Immortal | 11
>Consumable items require half as many tags and yeild 2 items with a 50% chance of yeilding a bonus item.

### Substituting Items and Expiration

Sometimes it is possible to modify formulas to use different tags than by default. In this instance discuss any changes with Andre.
>E.G. Making a flametounge out of dragon scale rather than metal. Andre could replace some or even most of the metal with dragonscale, just ask him.

Many materials have a shelf life, particularly those harvested from monsters. Some items will have a decay tag that will indicate how long it will last. Some materials brought to Andre can be preservered.



## Other Buildings and Features

### The Storehouse

This small building is little more than a warehouse with an attached office. It is fully staffed by consortium clerks and quartermasters. They take care of food and supplies in the town, reqesting more from out the outlands as needed. They offer ample secure storage space to explorers and can requesition items Andre cannot make, rare resources not found in the outlands, or deliver mail to the outside world.

### Cliff of the Divine

While the counting house is the only shrine the consortium has built in Hope's Gambit it is by no means the only one allowed. A prime space has been set aside for the worship of the Gods as well as materials for the construction of shrines and gathering places.

<div style='margin-top:140px'></div>

### Field of Strife

A small area outside of town has been set aside for martial training.

### River of Storms

An offshoot of the river gi'ad that flows through the Storm Wall. It is swift and prone to flooding, where once it drained out into the sea it now leads to a shallow basin that will, eventually, become a lake.

### Unused land

Hope's Gambit is small and the outlands is not. There is plenty of space available for building and expansion.

## Friendly Faces in Hope's Gambit

### Andre

A legendary, world-renown smith and drunkard whos prowess with dice stands in stark contrast to his prowes with steel. Andre wont say why he's in the Outlands, but rumor is he's paying off a debt to a powerful member of the consortium. While not in his workshop he can be found drinking and losing at games of chance.

\page
## Requently Asked Questions

### Can I have a pet zombie? I really like zombies.

Yes, you may. Several in fact. See the Create Undead ritual on page 411 of the Core book.

### Can I have a dagger I can use to turn poor helpless goblins into pitiful statues?

No. Once was enough. RIP Stu.

### You say I can have more than one character, does that mean characters are going to die?

Yes. Some more horribly than others. No punches will be pulled.
> Keep in mind that most, if not all, characters that have died in one of my games have done so not by misforutne of the dice, but by misadventure of the player. This means all the work Paizo has done to make characters more resilent in pathfinder is not applicable to my games.